>> Evan You: But
here we're just gonna simply talk about,
how to write a simple plugin that
exposes this dollar T method, right?
The usage looks like this.
We're finally using this second
argument of our view use function.
So you can passing additional
options into use of plugin.
And in the case of 8nplugin, we're
just gonna pass the local dictionary,
which contains of few different languages.
This is Netherlands, cuz [LAUGH] I gave
the workshop in Netherlands before so.
And in terms of language,
we will be requiring the user to
declare a reactive data property
called land at the root level.
And the way you change language is,
simply setting it to a different language.
So let's implement this quickly.
Our install function take view itself and
the locals.
All right, and
we need to mixin [COUGH].
So we need dollar T function to be
available everywhere and every component.
So we can do the mixin thing,
we can do methods $t,
but this is less efficient than, say,
just do Vue.prototype.$t = something else.
>> Evan You: Right,
we just attach it to Vue's prototype.
And this will become available
in every Vue instance.
This is just how prototype
inheritance in JavaScript works.
And this will be much more performant
because there won't be any runtime
overhead of finding the methods, option.
And then, setting up the method and
all that stuff.
And what we do is,
this function will take some id.
And in fact, we don't want it to be narrow
function because we do
need access to this ID.
And now, we need another thing
to figure out what to do.
Because first,
we need access to the id, and
then we need to locals, and
then we need the current language.
Where do we find the current language?
So if your using a state
management package,
you can store the current
language in a store.
And that would be very straight forward,
you just somehow feed the store of
either option into your plugin.
And the plugin would have
access to your store.
But in this case, we're just
gonna do the quick and dirty way.
We require that the user have this
land property in the root instance.
So we know it should always be there.
So we just do this.$root.lang.
This is our language right?
So and we can find the dictionary
from the locals and
find the corresponding id and
just return it.
And this is pretty much it.
>> Evan You: So yeah, switch and
between them works, and
so there really isn't too much to it.
The only thing I want to sort
of emphasize, so this is kind of
a combination of the plugin exercise and
the reactivity section.
Because understanding, why the language
switch works is pretty important here.
>> Evan You: This $t function
references this .$root.lang.
This dot here is what
registers the reactivity.
And it's important,
this lang is a data property,
instead of static property,
because it needs to be reactive, right?
This is also what enables
it to trigger changes,
when we later on set the lang
to a different value.
And why would this register reactivity?
It's because this $t function was
invoked here in the template.
And when the template gets
compiled into render functions,
this $t will also be invoked when
the render function, renders.
That's why the whole render function also,
registers root.lang as a dependency and
that's why later on
the whole switching works.
So yeah, this is essentially it,
if you're using directives,
things might have to work
a little bit differently.
But we don't really have that
much time to talk about that now,
so that's pretty much it for
the whole workshop.